So we talked about the three different
methods of testing, lab data,
synthetic data, and field data.
And we talked about statistics.
So let's bring this down to like reality.
We've been very theoretical up until now.
Let's talk about real tools and
what they mean and
how they translate back to these things.
So web performance tooling.
The first thing is all the different tools
that are available to us in Google Chrome.
Now again, I'm using Google Chrome Dev,
which is like the next version right now.
I'm running 131.
If you're running exactly 131,
you should see what I'm doing.
But chances are you're running either
a couple of versions behind or
maybe a couple of versions ahead because
you're watching this in the future.
All these things are very likely to change
because all the Chrome developer tools
are under active development
to make them better.
So things shift and rearrange.
So the little disclaimer
here in this demo.
So let's pop out and
understand a few things.
So, we're gonna do a little demo of
a couple of things in Google Chrome.
And we're gonna start with lighthouse.
So, I'm actually going
to pop out my DevTools.
And the reason why I'm gonna pop out my
DevTools is because right now with the dev
tools open on the bottom here,
I'm shrinking the size of the viewport.
My viewport is only this big.
And so all kinds of things that could
happen on the page that are tied to
the viewport,
I'm going to be kind of affecting
them because DevTools is in the way.
So instead, I'm gonna pop them
out into a separate window,
which I encourage you to do, especially
if you're doing performance testing.
So I'm gonna pop the Chrome
tools out into its own window so
that we can interact with them separately.
And so that the size of our DevTools
doesn't interact with the size
of the view port.
>> Todd Gardner: So under DevTools,
the first tool I want to show you is
Lighthouse, which is
one of the top panels.
And the Lighthouse report is the first
thing that a lot of people will do when
getting into performance.
It enables you to generate the really
common Lighthouse score, which is like
that big green or orange or red circle,
that I've shown in slides a few times.
You'll see it shared online.
People will brag about their score.
There's a couple of things that we
wanna do here because we want to
simulate a real user.
If you just pop open Lighthouse and
you don't do anything,
it's gonna generate a score that's
like based on your computer.
Which isn't relevant.
It's almost never relevant.
It doesn't do you any good, it's noise.
Instead, you need to try and generate
something as close to reality as you can.
And so the first thing to do
is to turn on responsive mode,
which is this little icon up here in
the upper left corner of Lighthouse.
Now, if you guys want to do this alongside
on either Developer Stickers Online or
another site, you can follow along and
we can do this together.
So I'm going to turn on responsive mode,
which you see back in Chrome has kind
of changed the frame a little bit.
We now have this header that allows you to
set screen sizes and some other things.
There's a default set of options here,
which probably by default comes into
responsive mode that lets you
dynamically change the size of things.
Which is interesting if you're
doing responsive design and
actively doing stuff like that.
It's less valuable for
performance testing.
Usually for performance testing,
we wanna set this to the kind
of user that we want to test.
There's a lot of different
mobile devices built in.
I tend to use iPhone 12 Pro a lot
as a very common screen size
of a few generations old mobile device.
I also have one that I built
myself called small laptop,
which I think is really valuable.
You can create these yourself.
Going into dimensions edit,
and you can create your own.
So for example,
small laptop has the display resolution
of 1366 by 768 at 1 device or
Per pixel density ratio.
So not a Retina display,
there's one display pixel to whatever.
So I just built this to kind of
represent a common user for me.
So I'm going to set this to iPhone 12 pro.
Now, that sets the screen size.
Now, there's a couple of other
things we should also do.
We should kind of maybe change how
we're connected to the network.
Because right now I'm
testing this thing locally.
I don't have any network
hop that I need to make.
So we should introduce one.
So under the network tab, there's
this option here called throttling.
Under throttling, we have some other
options that we can automatically tell
Chrome to pretend that we're on
a slower network than we are.
There's some default ones
that are interesting.
I tend to add my own honestly, so I can be
a little bit more controlling about it.
So I have this one here,
you set up your own throttling profiles.
I have this one called
USA Coffee Shop WiFi.
Then I just tried to emulate, hey,
this was a real experience that I had when
I was working from a coffee shop once.
I ran a speed test and it showed
that I had about ten megabit down,
four megabit up, and
50 milliseconds of latency.
It's just something that I use,
base your data on what you
think your real users have.
So I'm going to change my throttling
profile to USA Coffee Shop WIFI.
And then I'm going to go
to the performance tab and
there's one other thing
that we can do here.
If we open up the gear in the upper right,
we have some options on CPU throttling.
Now I have a MacBook Pro.
MacBook Pro with the M
whatever chip it's super fast,
not anything like what my users have,
probably.
And so I need to slow it down.
Now this isn't super accurate,
this is like an approximation.
But you can try and get a little
closer to what your users have.
So if I wanna slow this down say
six times, and limit how many
concurrent processors I have to ten,
I can turn that on here.
Now notice when I turned on
these throttling options,
I got these big warnings up here.
It's just so
you know when throttling is in effect.
So as you do things, you'll notice the web
page is significantly slower than it would
be normally.
And saying,
hey this is why you told me to slow down.
So, I turned to both of those things on,
and now I'm gonna go back to Lighthouse.
And Lighthouse, there's this option
here of how to do throttling.
I've turned on DevTools throttling,
and that let me control this.
So now it's going to honor
the network throttling and
the performance throttling
that I just set up.
So now I can run a page load, and
I would pretend to be a mobile device, and
I wanna test performance.
Lighthouse is good for
a lot of different things.
It can test SEO practices,
it can test accessibility.
That's out of scope of this course,
we're gonna focus on performance.
And we're gonna run a page load.
Now, this takes a little bit.
Because in the background,
it's re rendering the page.
You can see it like
trying to reload it and
do some stuff as
a performance optimization.
It shows us these little messages
that change along the way,
so that we don't feel like this is
taking nearly as long as it does.
It shows you various
statistics from Google data.
Because sometimes Lighthouse
can be quite slow,
especially if you're testing a slow
site like our example right now.
>> Todd Gardner: If a site
takes greater than one second,
it becomes interactive users.
We'll cut this all out of the video so
that people aren't watching
as this slowly loads.
Great, we got a report, and
it's not good.
It's so bad,
it didn't even give us a score.
It is not even a one.
It is negative, bad.
Error, we couldn't even load the page.
The largest contentful paint did not
even happen in the time of this thing.
So, what this thing generated for
us is it tries to surface
the First Contentful Paint, Largest
Contentful Paint, Cumulative Layout Shift.
And then some other scores that it pulls
out of Pulls out of the inner workings of
Chrome that we didn't really talk about
because they're really only unique to
lab testing.
Now, what this does not give us,
it didn't give us any INP score
because there was no interaction.
It can't click on something for us,
It doesn't know how to do that.
And it gives us a film stream strip of
here's what the page looked like and
then a bunch of diagnostics.
It's saying, here's some things that
I found that statistically might be
interesting for you to look at.
And that can all be super interesting.
What this also lets us do
is it lets us view a trace.
Which it jumps over here
into the performance tab,
which is the next thing
I wanna talk about.
Because this is the actual details
of getting into performance.
And this is why we spent time talking
about waterfall charts and fame charts.